



When you think of peaceful protest the first name coming to mind is Mahatma Gandhi. When you think of someone fighting against Apartheid the first name coming to mind is Nelson Mandela. The person embodying both is Desmond Tutu, a theologian who devoted his life to the fight for the people of south Africa. A fight he fought unexhaustibly until his death in 2010.
Growing up in South Africa he experienced racism and violence first-hand. However instead of remaining silent, he spoke out. Beginning what will become his lifelong task he criticized apartheid, the system of racial segregation oppressing the majority of the people. While most would at some point break from the immense strain of opposing the government for years, he kept his contagious smile following his motto of "there is no such thing as unchangeable". When the local fight stalled, Tutu went international prompting countries to economically sanction South Africa for its inhumane practices. Finally, he cleverly negotiated the end of apartheid avoiding a civil war.
For his fight against apartheid he was awarded a shared peace nobel prize with Nelson Mandela in 1984. Yet even after such an accomplishment he kept fighting expanding his battleground to gang-criminality and gay-rights.
However while his goals undisputedly were of honor, the way lead the Truth and Reconciliation Commission afterwards faced criticism. Focusing on reconciliation he opted for a restorative solution instead of a retributive one leading to a peaceful end of apartheid at the cost of many murders remaining unresolved.
Additionally he parted ways with the ANC, the African National Congress. The party he once supported lost his trust by enabling corruption, something he rigorously detested. Logically this earned him disdain from the party, which expectedly did not stop him from calling out this contradiction.
"Sometimes i wish i could keep quiet, but I cannot. I have to speak out" is what he once said and always lived by. His whole life was dedicated to the people of South Africa, to the fight against inequality. He accomplished the abolishment of apartheid by always speaking up for those who were oppressed. Even though some of his actions as head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission were disputed, the overall benefits he achieved for the population outweigh any critique he faced.
Ultimately his dedication for peace and equality laid the foundation for his dream of a "rainbow nation" - a place people of all backgrounds peacefully live together.
