Isaac Asimov's shortstory "The fun they had" originally published in "The Complete Stories Volume 1" in 2001 tells the story of a young girl growing up in a world abound of technology but devoid of social interaction. It depicts this imbalance at the case of the girl's school life consisting of her sitting alone in room with a robot every single day. The story ultimately concludes social aspects being indispensable for a child's proper development.

Isaac Asimov's shortstory "The fun they had" originally published in "The Complete Stories Volume 1" in 2001 tells the story of a Margie, a young girl growing up in a world abound of technology but devoid of social interaction. Upon finding an old book about historic school she questions her own view and is astonished by the world the book describes.

The protagonist of the story is Margie, a young girl at the age of eleven living with her mother. Since the story does not rely on the character's visual appearance, they are not described. Throughout the story Margie's character traits stay the same, no development is deducable.
Within the first lines, her ability to reflect on herself is emphasized by the fact that she takes her time to write a diary. Doing so she uses exclamation marks showing her excitement over the fact that "Tommy had found a real book!"(line 2.), something rare in her times. This excitement is highlighted further in the third paragraph by her finding it "awfully funny to read"(line 6f.) the old book. Margie also is a curios girl eager to know the origins of the book(cf. line 15 and 18). However, knowing it is about school her aversion regarding that topic becomes clear, in fact she "hate\[s] school"(line 20). This reaction clearly indicates her being moody as even the slightest mention of a topic deeply changes her emotional state in an instant. The ladder features underlined as when the teaching robot is being taken apart she hopes for the inspector "not know\[ing] how to put it together"(line 27.), so "they would take the teacher away altogether"(line 39f.). Upon this not being the case her mood drops again(cf. line 39) and she is jealous of Tommy since they "had once taken \[his] teacher away for nearly a month"(line 41.). Margie looks up to Tommy as can be seen in lines 13f where she highlights the age gap with an additional, simply worded sentence at the end of the paragraph: "He is thirteen.". Moreover she feels "hurt"(line 46.) after Tommy calls her "stupid"(line 44.). Even though she admires him she still questions him when her opinion differs(cf. line 51ff., line 63f and line 67f.) but also realizes when there is no point in further discussions(cf. line 58.) making her seem very mature despite her age. Her will to engage in discussions is underlined further by her disagreeing with her mum's orders openly, however, yet again she realizes defeat and follows obediently(cf. line 70ff.). Margie's maturity is reiterated as she kept her own interests in mind and asked Tommy to "read the book some more"(line 72) after school.

All in all, Margie is a very mature girl, who is standing up for her own although she sometimes struggles with her emotions.
